#summary Step by step build instructions for Windows using Visual Studio

= MOVING =
Faint development has moved to github:
https://github.com/lukas-ke/faint-graphics-editor

= OUTDATED Step by step build instructions for Windows using Visual Studio =
*Note* These build instructions are no longer updated!
See https://github.com/lukas-ke/faint-graphics-editor/blob/master/build/build-instructions-visual-studio.md instead!

*Note* These are build instructions for developers, and require quite a lot of work. Consider using an [http://code.google.com/p/faint-graphics-editor/downloads/ installer].

I use Visual Studio 2013 express for building Faint in Windows.

Note that since I only Visual Studio for compiling, not for editing, there is no Visual Studio project or solution included with the Faint sources. 
Instead I use a Python script which invokes the Visual Studio compiler.

Many of the instructions below are done in the command prompt.
The build steps require that the *Visual Studio command prompt* is used - and not the x64 variant!

The instructions are written assuming that "c:\dev" is used as a root for checkouts etc., adapt this to your preferences.

*Prerequisites*
 * [http://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/downloads/download-visual-studio-vs#DownloadFamilies_2 Visual C++]
 * [http://tortoisesvn.net/ SVN]

= 1. wxWidgets =
wxWidgets is the GUI toolkit used for Faint.

== Check out the wxWidgets trunk ==
{{{
cd c:\dev
svn checkout http://svn.wxwidgets.org/svn/wx/wxWidgets/trunk wxWidgets
}}}
This checks out the wxWidgets source to c:\dev\wxWidgets

== Build wxWidgets ==
{{{
cd c:\dev\wxWidgets\build\msw
nmake BUILD=release SHARED=0 -f makefile.vc
}}}

= 2. Python =
Python is used both for generating some code when building Faint and as the embedded scripting language of Faint. Faint requires Python 3.4 since revision 3881.

== Install Python 3.4 ==
http://www.python.org/download/

= 3. Pango and Cairo =
Faint uses Cairo for rendering vector graphics, and Pango for rendering text.

== Get the Pango and Cairo runtime and development files ==
http://www.gtk.org/download/win32.php

The required items are listed below. Unzip these somewhere convenient.

*Required Dev*
These are required for building Faint, and contain libraries and headers.
These are later indicated by the build.cfg (see 4).
 * GLib Dev
 * Pango Dev
 * Cairo Dev

*Required Run time*
DLL:s from these zips are needed to run Faint.
 * Freetype runtime
 * gettext runtime
 * Cairo runtime
 * expat runtime
 * Fontconfig runtime
 * GLib runtime
 * Pango runtime
 * libpng runtime
 * zlib runtime

= 4. Faint =
Without further ado...

== Check out Faint (read only) ==
{{{
cd c:\dev
svn checkout http://faint-graphics-editor.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ faint-graphics-editor
}}}
This checks out the Faint source to c:\dev\faint-graphics-editor

== Create build.cfg ==
The file build.cfg contains paths to Faint dependencies. Generate the build config file as follows:
{{{
cd c:\dev\faint-graphics-editor\build
build.py
}}}

This creates build.cfg. Edit it so that it correctly points out wxWidgets, Pango and Cairo. 

Example build.cfg:
{{{
[folders]
wx_root=c:\dev\wxWidgets
cairo_include=c:\dev\cairo-dev_1.8.10-3_win32\include\cairo
cairo_lib=c:\dev\cairo-dev_1.8.10-3_win32\lib
python_include=c:\python34\include
python_lib=c:\python34\libs
pango_include=C:\dev\pango-dev_1.28.3-1_win32\include\pango-1.0
pango_lib=C:\dev\pango-dev_1.28.3-1_win32\lib
glib_include=C:\dev\glib-dev_2.26.1-1_win32\include\glib-2.0
glib_lib=C:\dev\glib-dev_2.26.1-1_win32\lib
glib_config_include=C:\dev\glib-dev_2.26.1-1_win32\lib\glib-2.0\include
}}}

== Build Faint ==
Run build.py again.
{{{
build.py
}}}
Faint should now build, producing the executable "Faint.exe" in the checkout root folder (e.g. c:\dev\faint-graphics-editor\Faint.exe)

== Copy runtime libraries ==
Copy the following dll:s from the Runtime packages downloaded in (3) to the Faint root folder (e.g. c:\dev\faint-graphics-editor):
{{{
freetype6.dll
intl.dll
libcairo-2.dll
libexpat-1.dll
libfontconfig-1.dll
libgio-2.0-0.dll
libglib-2.0-0.dll
libgmodule-2.0-0.dll
libgobject-2.0-0.dll
libgthread-2.0-0.dll
libpango-1.0-0.dll
libpangocairo-1.0-0.dll
libpangoft2-1.0-0.dll
libpangowin32-1.0-0.dll
zlib1.dll
}}}

== Start ==
Run the Faint executable (Faint.exe), Faint should now start.