#summary Thoughts or bugs that I've been too lazy to report as issues.

= Stuff I want soon =
 * Better boundingbox for rotated Polygons (et al)
 * Skewing for all objects
 * Better brush speed

= Text =
 * Text box needs padding options
 * Need centering
 * Home/End/Move up/Move down only works for hard linebreaks
----
Move up should remember preferred x-pos, like wordpad - not like notepad.
e.g. <BR>
"asdfsdad<BR>
ghia<BR>
jdsf<BR>
< blank line ><BR>
kla|sdfsdfs"<BR>

Caret start is at line y=5, x=3<BR>
When moved up to the blank line, x will be 0<BR>
when up again, caret should again be at x=3<BR>
----
This could be useful (wxFileDialog):
{{{
bool SetExtraControlCreator (ExtraControlCreatorFunction creator)
}}}
Customize file dialog by adding extra window, which is typically placed below the list of files and above the buttons.
----
= Misc =
 * Ctrl+Arrows to navigate the tree in the help window when help area has focus can not move up/down or open/close.
 * Edited photos lose all image information when saved (e.g. date taken)
 * Object paste-to-new not large enough, compare object autocrop
 * The line width control sometimes stops working! I went back to using an integer control to resolve this for now (r1127)
 * Tiny (1 pixel or less) raster objects cause crashes
 * Scaled raster object with masked background should blend towards image below, not object background color 
 * SVG: I need to declare the faint custom attributes for conformity
 * SVG: Need to apply settings in groups and subgroups recursively.
 * For image list setting control, the control should indicate if only a subset of the selected objects have the values, e.g. using a shade
 * Crash if pasting objects between Faint instances
 * Hold some key when resizing canvas to resize in all directions?
 * Consider: Pasted object appears at same location as original if visible, only otherwise top left.
 * Object selection lost on redo after scale
 * Add support for svg:s produced with Graphviz dot ~~(breaks due to multiple transformations)~~ <- Transformations fixed in r1220, but text alignment etc. needs work
 * Links in SVG
 * Consider uniform tab-size up to a certain length - makes closing with mouse nicer
 * Remove file from recent when missing on open-attempt. Missing files seem to be removed on Faint-start, but not when already started, so if one file remains, the error will appear on all "open all", etc. Especially annoying when moving a file, as there may be two entries in the menu.
 * Per-item tooltip in imagelist
 * Mad idea: look in command history for raster-snap points?
----
 